1. What are signals, what is their purpose?

    Signals are software interrupts that are sent to be handled by a process. 
    Each signal is distinguished by a number referred to by some macro such as
    SIGINT, SIGTSTP, etc. These can be used to facilitate communications
    between processes during runtime.

2. Explain the following signals: SIGINT, SIGTSTP, SIGCONT ?how can they be
used to suspend, resume, and terminate a program?
    
    SIGINT is the program interrupt signal. It is generated when the user at
    the console triggers it with Control C or whatever their INTR interrupt
    character may be.
    
    SIGTSTP is an interrupt requesting the program to stop; It is triggered by
    the user entering control-Z. This signal allows the program to handle or
    even ignore the signal, giving it a chance to clean up what it is doing
    or otherwise respond appropriately before ending.
    
    SIGCONT is a signal that tells the process to resume it's operation. It is
    possible to set a handler for this signal but doing so is not nessecary for
    the process to continue, in other words the process will continue
    regardless if a handler is set.
    
    In terms of default behaviour, SIGINT and SIGTSTP both indicate that a
    program should be terminated. However, a handler could be set for SIGINT
    to make the process suspend itself instead of just terminating, possibly
    to wait for SIGCONT. If the handler does busy waiting on accepting SIGINT
    and waits for SIGCONT, then it would terminate it's busy waiting on
    recieving SIGCONT allowing it to pause without terminating the process.
    

3. Explain the following functions: kill(), waitpid()?how can they be used to
terminate a process and wait until it has ended before continuing?
    kill is a function that sends some signal to a process with a particular
    pid. It can be used to send signals other than those that would cause
    termination, despite its name. 
    
    waidpid waits for a process to complete.
    
    Together, kill can send a code like SIGTSTP to the process that needs terminaitng.
    This could be self-referencing using getpid(), and can terminate itself. waitpid()
    would be invoked in the waiting process.
    

4. Explain what a linked-list?(queue) is, what does FIFO ?mean? What are the
common operations that a linked-list must have?

    A linked list is a structure of ordered objects. Each node in the list 
    has a pointer to it's neighboring element(s). The last element has a null
    value for it's next pointer. Common operations for a linked list include
    push(), which inserts a new node at the end of the list, and pop(), which
    remove the element at the front of the list for FIFO lists.

    FIFO is short for First-In-First-Out, and refers to the queue structure.
    Elements are inserted at the back of the list and popped from the front,
    so that the element that is removed is the oldest existing in the list.
    
    

5. Explain the structure of a linked-list as implemented in C, explain how would you
implement the operations to add and remove values from the queue?

    In C, we would represent a node as a struct containing the value and a
    pointer to another node. This pointer to the node would be initialized to
    null, representing that it is the sole element in the list. In order to
    represent the list, we would refer to the first node or head of the list
    and use this node in list operations. 
    
    push() and pop() would be functions accepting the head node struct as a
    parameter. push() would create a new node struct with the new value in it.
    Then, it would iterate through each node by looking at the node
    pointed to by each node's "next" attribute. When it finds a node with a
    null "next" attribute, it would reassign that value to point to the newly
    created node. pop() would work by setting the head of the list to the head's
    next element, in effect shrinking the list. C is pass-by-value, so these
    functions must take pointers as parameters. For example, push() needs a
    pointer instead of a copy of head in order to push a value behind the head.
    For this reason it should take a pointer as a parameter. pop() must go a
    level higher to change the address used by head, and therefore needs a
    pointer to a pointer.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
